the cicada can make it sound so
loud it can damage your eardrums
the majority of a lifespan
investigator is underground and
they can remain underground
between - 17 years
and when the male emerges that's
when they start calling
they need to find a mate before
they die
so they're very loud and the way
that it's cicada achieved such
high volume is through its
hollow abdomen
it's got these little symbols
and it pulls in and out these
drum-like organs
and with the hollow abdomen is
able to create a huge amount of
noise
some of them going to upwards of
a hundred decibels some harmful
even to the human here cause
which are specialized for fruit
in the very highest part of the
canopy will come all the way
down and they'll eat the dirt